```cpp
bool b = 42; //b istrue
int i = b; //i has value1
i = 3.14; //i has value3
double pi = i; //pi has value3.0
unsigned char c = -1; // assuming 8-bit chars,c has value 255
signed char c2 = 256; // assuming 8-bit chars, the value of c2 is undefined
```

```cpp
int i = 42;
if (i) // condition will evaluate as true
	i = 0;
```
If the value is 0, then the condition is false; all other (nonzero) values yield true.

```cpp
unsigned u = 10;
int i = -42;
std::cout << i + i << std::endl; // prints -84
std::cout << u + i << std::endl; // if 32-bit ints, prints 4294967264
```



# 2.2 VARIABLES


### 2.2.1 Variable Definitions

```cpp
std::string book("0-201-78345-X"); //book initialized from string literal
```

A simple variable definition consists of a type specifier, followed by a list of one or
more variable names separated by commas, and ends with a semicolon

**WHAT I S AN OBJECT ?**

C++ programmers tend to be cavalier in their use of the term object. Most generally,
an object is a region of memory that can contain data and has a type.

Some use the term object only to refer to variables or values of class types. Others
distinguish between named and unnamed objects, using the term variable to refer to
named objects.

Still others distinguish between objects and values, using the term
object for data that can be changed by the program and the term value for data that are
read-only.


**Initializers**
An object that is initialized gets the specified value at the moment it is created.

The values used to initialize a variable can be arbitrarily complicated expressions.

When a definition defines two or more variables, the name of each object becomes
visible immediately.

Thus, it is possible to initialize a variable to the value of one
defined earlier in the same definition.


```cpp
// ok:price is defined and initialized before it is used to initializediscount
double price = 109.99, discount = price * 0.16;
// ok: call applyDiscount and use the return value to initialize salePrice
double salePrice = applyDiscount(price, discount);
```


# 2.3 COMPOUND TYPES


A compound type is a type that is defined in terms of another type. C++ has
several compound types, two of which
	references 
	 pointer
	